everything is interconnected as a
Shinnecock Indian I was raised to know
this we are a small fishing tribe
situated on the southeastern tip of Long
Island near the town of Southampton in
New York when I was a little girl my
grandfather took me to sit outside in
the Sun on a hot summer day there were
no clouds in the sky and after a while I
began to perspire and he pointed up to
the sky and he said look do you see that
that's part of you up there
that's your water that helps to make the
cloud that becomes the rain that feeds
the plants that feeds the animals and my
continued exploration of subjects in
nature that have the ability to
illustrate the interconnection of all
life I started storm-chasing in 2008
after my daughter said mom you should do
that and so three days later driving
very fast
I found myself stalking a single type of
giant cloud called a supercell capable
of producing grapefruit sized hail and
spectacular tornadoes although only two
percent actually do these clouds can
grow so big up to 50 miles wide and
reach up to 65,000 feet into the
atmosphere they can grossed a big
blocking all daylight making it very
dark and ominous standing under them
storm chasing is a very tactile
experience there's a warm moist wind
blowing at your back and the smell of
the earth the wheat the grass the
charged particles and then there are the
colors in the clouds of hail forming the
greens and the turquoise blues
I've learned to respect the lightning my
hair used to be straight I'm just
kidding what really excites me about
these storms is their movement the way
they swirl and spin and undulate with
their lava lamp like my modest clouds
they become lovely monsters when I'm
photographing them I cannot help but
remember my grandfather's lesson as I
stand under them I see not just a cloud
but understand that what I have the
privilege to witness is the same forces
the same process in a small-scale
version that helped to create our galaxy
our solar system our Sun and even this
very planet all my relations thank you
[Applause]